---
title: "Do China’s coal-to-gas policies improve regional environmental quality? A case of Beijing"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/espr2021
excerpt: 'This paper takes Beijing, China’s political and economic center as well as a national pioneer in the energy transition, as a case to systematically analyze the co-mitigation of air pollution (PM2.5) and carbon emissions (CO2) achieved by the policy-driven natural gas-coal consumption substitution'
date: 2021-06-01
venue: 'Environmental Science & Pollution Research'
paperurl: 'http://lzh3278.github.io/files/espr2021.pdf'
citation: 'Wang, J., Li, Z., Ye, H. et al. Do China’s coal-to-gas policies improve regional environmental quality? A case of Beijing. Environ Sci Pollut Res 28, 57667–57685 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-021-14727-3'
---
Abstract
-----
Clean energy transition has been considered as an indispensable way to attain sustainable development for China, where the coal-to-gas initiative plays a vital role towards the goal. This paper takes Beijing, China’s political and economic center as well as a national pioneer in the energy transition, as a case to systematically analyze the co-mitigation of air pollution (PM2.5) and carbon emissions (CO2) achieved by the policy-driven natural gas-coal consumption substitution. Firstly, a qualitative analysis of the relationship of Beijing’s coal-to-gas policies and its air quality has been conducted. Then, VAR and ARDL models are employed to quantitatively analyze the impacts of coal-to-gas policies on PM2.5 and CO2, respectively. Results show that (i) an innovation of natural gas/coal consumption ratio will reduce PM2.5 concentrations, and the effect decreases over time; and (ii) an increase of 1% in natural gas/coal consumption ratio in Beijing will cause a decrease of 0.0784% in CO2 emissions in the long run. Therefore, the coal-to-gas policies do increase the usage of natural gas and improve Beijing’s air quality. The assessment methods and conclusions can be regarded as a reference for not only China’s policymakers, but also other countries, especially nowadays when air quality is becoming more valued and GHGs are being tightly controlled.

Highlights
------
* Coal-to-gas policies in Beijing have been systematically reviewed and analyzed.
* The effect of policy implementation is analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively.
* Results show that coal-to-gas policies do improve Beijing’s air quality significantly.
* Impacts of policies on PM2.5 are significant in short term and stabilize in the long term.
* The dampening effect of policies on CO2 emissions is significant in the long run.
